feat(contracts): reward via portal to L2 vault when the output is finalized (#61)
kroma-network/kroma: specs/validations.md

[finality]: https://hackmd.io/@prysmaticlabs/finality

The submitting account of the output root is determined by the `ValidatorPool` contract on L1.
If that account hasn't submitted an output in a certain amount of time, any account registered as a validator can submit
an output.
In this case, the first output that arrives to this contract will be accepted.

> Once the submitted output is finalized, the account that submitted it is eligible for rewards in L2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the submitted output is finalized, the account that submitted it becomes eligible for rewards in L2.
```

> To elaborate a bit more, when you submit an output to `L2OutputOracle`, it sends a transaction to `ValidatorRewardVault`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To elaborate a bit more, when you submit an output to `L2OutputOracle`, it deposits a transaction to `ValidatorRewardVault`
```

[finality]: https://hackmd.io/@prysmaticlabs/finality

> The validator that submits the output root is determined by the `ValidatorPool` contract on L1.
> The output submission rounds are `Priority Round` and `Public Round`, and the time limit of each round is configured
> as `ROUND_DURATION` in the ValidatorPool contract.
> A prioritized validator is selected by a random function in the `ValidatorPool` contract, and the prioritized validator
> must submit output within the Priority Round time.
> If the prioritized validator fails to submit within the Priority Round, the round moves to the Public Round, where all
> validators can submit output regardless of priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The validator that submits the output root is determined by the `ValidatorPool` contract on L1.
The output submission rounds are divided into `Priority Round` and `Public Round`, and the time limit of each round is
configured as `ROUND_DURATION` in the ValidatorPool contract.
A prioritized validator is selected by a random function in the `ValidatorPool` contract, and the prioritized validator
must submit output within the `Priority Round` time.
If the prioritized validator fails to submit within the `Priority Round`, the round moves to the `Public Round`, where
all validators can submit output regardless of priority.
```

Reviewer 2: Could you add `Priority Round`, `Public Round` to `glossary.md`?

> Once your submitted output is [finalized][finality], the submitter is eligible for a reward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your submitted output is [finalized][finality], the submitter becomes eligible for a reward.
```

> For more information on this, see [Validation Rewards](#validation-rewards).

Reviewer 2: I think we should add checking next validator code block to L72-L82. Also remove L84-L85.

}
```

> ### Validation Rewards

Reviewer 2: Why this section is duplicated with the section in `## Validator Pool Smart Contract`? I think this section would be better to be removed.

finalized, it called a `validation reward`. When the output is finalized in the `ValidatorPool` contract,
it sends a message to pay the reward to the L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` via the `KromaPortal` contract.

The `ROUND_DURATION` time is divided into `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` and `PENALTY_PERIOD`.
The `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` is the time to guarantee that transaction will be included in the block in L1.
If the validator submits the output within this time, it can receive the full reward.
The full reward is the balance in the `ValidatorRewardVault` when the output is finalized, divided by `REWARD_DIVIDER`,
a value equal to one week.  If the validator submits an output after the `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD`,
the reward will gradually decrease, it called a penalty. The percentage of the penalty is calculated using the time
delayed during the `PENALTY_PERIOD`, and the reward is reduced by this percentage.

Rewards received by the validator can be withdrawn to L1 via `withdraw()` in the ValidatorRewardVault.

### Configuration

The `startingBlockNumber` must be at least the number of the first recorded L2 block.
The `startingTimestamp` MUST be the same as the timestamp of the first recorded L2 block.

> Thus, the first `outputRoot` submitted will be at height `startingBlockNumber + 1`, and each subsequent one will be at

Reviewer 2: Isn't the before one right?

the `ValidatorPool` contract.
When submitting the output, the validator must bond at least `MIN_BOND_AMOUNT` of Ethereum, which will be unbonded and
rewarded to the L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` contract when the output is finalized.

Validator Pool Smart Contract implements the following interface:

```solidity
interface ValidatorPool {
  event Bonded(
    address indexed submitter,
    uint256 indexed outputIndex,
    uint128 amount,
    uint128 expiresAt
  );

  event BondIncreased(address indexed challenger, uint256 indexed outputIndex, uint128 amount);
  event Unbonded(uint256 indexed outputIndex, address indexed recipient, uint128 amount);

  function deposit() external payable;

  function withdraw(uint256 _amount) external;

  function createBond(
    uint256 _outputIndex,
    uint128 _amount,
    uint128 _expiresAt
  ) external;

  function increaseBond(address _challenger, uint256 _outputIndex) external;

  function unbond() external;

  function balanceOf(address _addr) external view returns (uint256);

  function nextValidator() public view returns (address);
}
```

### Validation Rewards

> A validator who submits an output can receive a reward from L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` contract when that output is
> finalized, it called a `validation reward`.
> When the output is finalized in the `ValidatorPool` contract, it sends a message to pay the reward to the
> L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` via the `KromaPortal` contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A validator who submits an output can receive a reward from L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` contract when the output is
finalized, it is called validation reward. When the output is finalized, the `ValidatorPool` contract sends a message
to pay the reward in the L2 `ValidatorRewardVault` via the `KromaPortal` contract.
```

The `ROUND_DURATION` time is divided into `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` and `PENALTY_PERIOD`.

> The `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` is the time to guarantee that transaction will be included in the block in L1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` is the time to guarantee that transaction will be included in the L1 block.
```

If the validator submits the output within this time, it can receive the full reward.
The full reward is the balance in the `ValidatorRewardVault` when the output is finalized, divided by `REWARD_DIVIDER`,

> a value equal to one week.
> If the validator submits an output after the `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD`, the reward will gradually decrease, it called a
> penalty.
> The percentage of the penalty is calculated using the time delayed during the `PENALTY_PERIOD`,
> and the reward is reduced by this percentage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which is a value equal to the number of outputs in a week. If the validator submits an output after the
`NON_PENALTY_PERIOD`, the reward will gradually decrease, it is called a penalty. The percentage of the penalty is
calculated using the time elapsed during the `PENALTY_PERIOD`, and the reward is reduced by this percentage.
```

Rewards received by the validator can be withdrawn to L1 via `withdraw()` in the ValidatorRewardVault.

### Configuration

The `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` must be at least the number of the first recorded L2 block.

> The `PENALTY_PERIOD` MUST be the same as the timestamp of the first recorded L2 block.

Reviewer 2: I can't not understand what these lines mean.

> The sum of the two values, `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` and `PENALTY_PERIOD`, must be equal to `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sum of the two values, `NON_PENALTY_PERIOD` and `PENALTY_PERIOD`, must be equal to `ROUND_DURATION`.
Double of `ROUND_DURATION` is equal to `L2_BLOCK_TIME` multiplied by `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL`.
```

|-----------------------|--------|---------|
| `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL` | `1800` | blocks  |
| `L2_BLOCK_TIME`       | `2`    | seconds |
| `MIN_BOND_AMOUNT`     | TBD    | wei     |

> | `REWARD_DIVIDER`      | `168`  | hours   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `REWARD_DIVIDER`      | `168`  | number of outputs   |
```
